What is RHEL Linux stands for? 

RHEL stands for Red Hat Enterprise Linux. It is a commercial Linux distribution developed by Red Hat, aimed at enterprises for its stability, security, and support. RHEL is widely used in production environments, offering long-term support and advanced security features. 

Key Features: 

Long-term support and updates. 

Security patches and compliance. 

Enterprise-grade reliability and performance. 

 

What is swap space? 

Swap space is a portion of the hard drive designated to simulate extra RAM when physical RAM is full. It allows the system to continue processing by offloading inactive memory pages to disk. 

Usage: 

Prevents out-of-memory errors. 

Helps handle larger workloads without additional RAM. 

Check swap usage: 

 

 

free -h 
 

Allocate swap space: 

 

 

sudo swapon /path/to/swapfile 
 

 

Search a word in a file and replace it in entire file 

The sed command is used to find and replace text in files. The -i option edits the file in place. 

Command: 

 

 

sed -i 's/old-word/new-word/g' filename 
 

Example: 

 

 

sed -i 's/error/fix/g' logfile.txt 
 

This replaces every occurrence of "error" with "fix" in logfile.txt. 

 

What is the use of SCP command? 

SCP (Secure Copy Protocol) is used to securely copy files between local and remote systems over SSH. 

Command to copy file from local to remote: 

 

 

scp file.txt user@remote:/remote/path 
 

Command to copy file from remote to local: 

 

 

scp user@remote:/remote/file.txt /local/path 
 

 

What is the use of FTP command? 

FTP (File Transfer Protocol) is used for transferring files between a client and a server over a network. 

Basic FTP Commands: 

Connect to an FTP server: 

 

 

ftp ftp.example.com 
 

Upload a file: 

 

 

put localfile.txt 
 

Download a file: 

 

 

get remotefile.txt 
 

 

What is alias and how to set up? 

An alias creates a shortcut for long or complex commands. 

Command to create an alias: 

 

 

alias shortname='command' 
 

Example: 

 

 

alias ll='ls -la' 
 

To make it permanent, add the alias to your ~/.rc or ~/._profile. 

 

Difference between upgrade and update system 

Update: Refreshes the list of available packages and updates their versions. 

 

 

sudo apt update 
 

Upgrade: Installs the latest versions of packages and may involve changing the current package set. 

 

 

sudo apt upgrade 
 

Dist-Upgrade (Debian/Ubuntu): 

 

 

sudo apt dist-upgrade 
 

This command handles package dependencies more intelligently, sometimes removing obsolete packages. 

 

Name default ports used for DNS, SMTP, FTP, SSH, DHCP, and Squid 

DNS: 53 (UDP/TCP) 

SMTP: 25 (TCP) 

FTP: 21 (TCP) 

SSH: 22 (TCP) 

DHCP: 67/68 (UDP) 

Squid (proxy): 3128 (TCP) 

 

How to check if a package is installed or not? 

Debian-based systems: 

 

 

dpkg -l | grep package-name 
 

Red Hat-based systems: 

 

 

rpm -q package-name 
 

Example: 

 

 

dpkg -l | grep nginx 
 

 

Which of the following commands sends exactly three ping packets to google.com? 

Use the ping command with the -c option to specify the count. 

Command: 

 

 

ping -c 3 google.com 
 

 

Which file contains a list of group names and GIDs? 

The /etc/group file contains group information. 

Command to view: 

 

 

cat /etc/group 
 

Example Output: 

text 

 

root:x:0: 
daemon:x:1: 
 

 

Which of the following contains the value of the exit status of the previously executed command? 

The variable $? stores the exit status of the last executed command. 

Example: 

 

 

echo $? 
 

0: Success 

Non-zero: Failure 

 

Which command displays the number and type of processors used by a Linux system? 

Use the lscpu command. 

Command: 

 

 

lscpu 
 

Example Output: 

text 

 

CPU(s):              4 
Model name:          Intel(R) Core(TM) i5-8250U CPU 
 

 

Which command should you use to get a list of connected USB devices? 

Use the lsusb command. 

Command: 

 

 

lsusb 
 

Example Output: 

text 

 

Bus 001 Device 002: ID 8087:0029 Intel Corp. 
 

 

Which environment variable is used as the default argument for the "cd" command when no directory is provided? 

The HOME environment variable is used by default. 

Command: 

 

 

cd 
 

This takes you to the directory defined by HOME. 

 

True or False: A command following a semicolon will be executed no matter the exit status of the preceding command. 

True. Commands separated by a semicolon are executed sequentially. 

Example: 

 

 

mkdir testdir ; cd testdir 
 

cd testdir executes regardless of the success of mkdir. 

 

What are the valid values of the exit status? 

0: Command executed successfully. 

Non-zero: Command failed. Each number indicates a different error. 

 

According to the FHS, what is the correct directory for log files? 

According to the Filesystem Hierarchy Standard (FHS), log files are stored in /var/log. 

 

What port must be open to ping a given host? 

Ping uses the ICMP protocol, which operates at the network layer and does not use a port. 

 

Can you give some names of Linux distributions? 

Popular Linux distributions include: 

Ubuntu 

Fedora 

Debian 

CentOS 

Red Hat Enterprise Linux (RHEL) 

Arch Linux 

SUSE 

 

What is kernel? 

The kernel is the core component of an operating system that manages hardware resources and provides services to applications. It handles memory management, process scheduling, device control, and system calls. 

 

How will you transfer a file from a Linux server to your Windows OS and vice versa? 

Use SCP or SFTP for secure file transfer: 

From Linux to Windows: 

 

 

scp file.txt user@windows_ip:/path/to/destination 
 

From Windows to Linux: 

 

 

scp user@linux_ip:/path/to/file /local/destination 
 

 

How you can split a file into two? 

Use the split command to divide a file into smaller parts. 

Command: 

 

 

split -l 1000 largefile part_ 
 

This splits largefile into chunks of 1000 lines each, naming them part_aa, part_ab, etc. 

 

How you can get the unique values from a list? 

Use the sort and uniq commands together. 

Command: 

 

 

sort filename | uniq 
 

Example: 

 

 

sort data.txt | uniq 
 

 

Using VI editor, how will you edit and save a file? 

Open file: vi filename 

Insert mode: Press i 

Save and exit: Press Esc, type :wq, and press Enter. 

 

What is the difference between find and locate command? 

find: Searches in real-time across the filesystem. 

 

 

find /path -name filename 
 

locate: Uses a pre-built index, making it faster but requires regular updates (updatedb). 

 

 

locate filename 
 

 

What is TEE Command used for? 

The tee command reads input and writes it to both standard output and one or more files. 

Command: 

 

 

command | tee filename 
 

Example: 

 

 

echo "Hello World" | tee file.txt 
 

 

What is Xargs used for? 

xargs constructs argument lists and passes them to other commands. 

Command: 

 

 

echo "file1 file2" | xargs rm 
 

 

How you can find the number of files and folders in a directory? 

Use find and wc commands: 

Files: 

 

 

find /path -type f | wc -l 
 

Directories: 

 

 

find /path -type d | wc -l 
 

 

I want to read only line 25 to 30th Line, how will you do it? 

Use the sed command to print specific lines. 

Command: 

 

 

sed -n '25,30p' filename 
 

 

What is the use of Tar command? 

The tar command creates and extracts archives. 

Command to create archive: 

 

 

tar -cvf archive.tar file1 file2 
 

Command to extract archive: 

 

 

tar -xvf archive.tar 
 

 

How to redirect both standard output and error to a file? 

Use &> to redirect both standard output and error. 

Command: 

 

 

command &> outputfile 
 

 

Name some commands for DNS resolution? 

nslookup: Query DNS servers. 

 

 

nslookup example.com 
 

dig: Query DNS information. 

 

 

dig example.com 
 

host: DNS lookup utility. 

 

 

host example.com 
 

 

Automation 

What is use of At command? 

The at command schedules one-time tasks for execution at a later time. 

Command: 

 

 

at 2pm 
 

Which service is used by At command? 

The atd (At Daemon) service handles scheduled at jobs. 

Command to check: 

 

 

systemctl status atd 
 

 

Permissions 

Which command syntax is correct if you want to assign read-only permission to everyone and write permission to the owner of the file? 

Use the chmod command. 

Command: 

 

 

chmod 644 filename 
 

Which command changes the group ownership of the "/var/www" directory to the "apache" group? 

Use the chgrp command. 

Command: 

 

 

chgrp apache /var/www 
 

What is chmod 777 filename? 

Grants read, write, and execute permissions to everyone (owner, group, others). 

What is ACL and its advantage? 

Access Control List (ACL) provides more granular permissions beyond the traditional owner, group, and others. 

Command to set ACL: 

 

 

setfacl -m u:user:rwx filename 
 

 

Process 

What command allows you to display all the process IDs of the running nginx processes? 

Use pgrep. 

Command: 

 

 

pgrep nginx 
 

What is nice value of a process? 

The nice value determines the priority of a process. Lower values mean higher priority. 

How to check the nice value of a process? 

Use the ps command. 

Command: 

 

 

ps -eo pid,comm,nice 
 

What command can be used to check the %CPU? 

Use top or htop. 

Command: 

 

 

top 

 
